{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\sl240\slmult1\f0\fs24 WMN June 4th.\par
\par
Doing our weekly supermarket shop - I am the trolley pusher - I noticed a lot of New Zealand lamb in the meat section. There was some UK lamb on offer, but not much. Seeing how well our lamb is selling at present, I checked the prices and was not surprised the store was offering shoppers the choice. New Zealand lamb-chops were about \'a36/kilo against ours at \'a310/kilo. OK, ours must be fresher than something that has travelled halfway round the world, and I don\rquote t know how much New Zealand farmers are being paid, but I\rquote ll bet the family sitting down to dinner doesn\rquote t ask \lquote Mum\rquote  where the lamb came from or even notice that much difference in taste. A French family might, but not an English one.\par
\par
Farmers never seem to have a good word to say about dealing with the supermarkets, but for once, I\rquote ll be the exception. If I say it myself, I have had some little experience dealing with supermarkets. I was for many years closely involved with the dairy farmer co-operative which is responsible for promoting and marketing the milk produced by Jersey and Guernsey cows. Being a loudmouth, I ended up where loudmouths often do, as Chairman of the co-operative. In fact I did ten years as Chairman, and a very interesting time it proved to be.\par
\par
Quality Milk Producers was founded in 1954 by a small group of farmers who felt that those of us milking the Channel Islands breeds of cow were poorly represented to the Milk Marketing Board. The membership grew very rapidly to about 90% of the C.I. farmers in England and Wales who had contracts with local dairy companies delivering the nations daily pinta. QMP\rquote s job at that time was to ensure that we got a fair price from the MMB and that Gold Top, as we called our milk, was properly promoted to the housewife. We were in fact very successful and Gold Top became a household name.\par
\par
However as time went on, with the health lobby campaigning against fat in the national diet and price inflation hitting doorstep delivery both working against us, we faced a steady decline in sales. By the 1970s, which was when I became a QMP director, we desperately needed to sell our milk through shops, if  we were to maintain our place as a premium milk.\par
\par
By then, the supermarkets were getting heavily into liquid milk selling, and it seemed the obvious way for us to go. However it was not that simple; to the milk buyer at that time, milk came under three headings - whole, semi-skim and skim. There were none of the speciality milks there are now. We were breaking new ground. \par
\par
To begin with, we were amazed at how young the head milk buyers of the various supermarkets were, and we approached them all at one time or another. What on earth could they know about the complexities of the milk industry?  All they seemed interested in was how much profit per square foot of shelf space the product would make.\par
\par
Then they wanted our milk either in their own brand name, or as an exclusive for a number of years. We realised that the supermarkets chains, being so few and powerful, are paranoid about the competition. They may operate cosy cartels at high level on the golf course, I wouldn\rquote t know, but on the ground they are for ever looking over their shoulders at what the opposition are doing and charging. That eventually worked to our advantage, provided we used our own brands, since once we were accepted by one chain, we had easier entry to all the others. Getting into the first one was the difficulty.\par
\par
There were problems of naming, packaging and trade marking to overcome. Patenting \lquote Gold Top\rquote  was relatively easy by then - it was virtually protected by the common law of \lquote passing off\rquote . Unfortunately the supermarkets wanted a new product and the name \lquote Breakfast Milk\rquote , which we adopted for selling our homogenised freezeable milk in cartons, proved very much harder. I spent three years discovering all about the complexities of trademark law, even taking a large Dairy Company to court for attempting to poach our name.\par
\par
Thankfully our efforts were rewarded. After one or two false starts, it was Tesco that gave us the major breakthrough. They agreed to run a trial in the London area, followed by distribution through the southern counties after six months if successful, with national sales a year later. We gave them a two year exclusive. They went national within a year and I had the satisfaction of proving it by asking a string-vest-clad Scots building worker buying a pint of Breakfast Milk in a Perth Tesco in his lunch break why he chose it. He said it was the best milk in the store.\par
\par
That was many years ago. Q.M.P. now has a number of milks and milk products in most of the major supermarkets. With their system of delivery into a single depot for distribution, they can be available on a daily basis anywhere in the country. For small specialist fresh products there is no other way of achieving national sales. Supermarkets are not all bad.\par
\par
WMN June 11th.\par
    \par
\pard\sl-240\slmult0 When you read this, Jenny and I will, hopefully, be on a fortnights holiday in Poland. Like everybody who asks us where we are going, you are probably wondering \lquote why Poland?\rquote  Weather permitting, Jim will be making silage, so the timing is not ideal. We still manage without using contractors, and as I am sometimes called on as a standby tractor driver, I feel guilty at being away, but at my age my tractor-driving is probably more of a liability. The tour company we are going with cancelled our chosen date in May for lack of interest, but offered us a discount as compensation if we went now.\par
\pard\sl240\slmult1\par
We have two reasons for going to Poland. The first is certainly not to witness their referendum on entry to the EU which will take place while we are in Warsaw. I would expect it to be a foregone conclusion, considering Poland\rquote s troubled history. What we are very interested to see is how much farming has changed since we were there eight years ago. As I have mentioned before, what we saw of Polish agriculture was at that time almost medieval. We were travelling through eastern Poland on a nature study tour, visiting wonderful areas for wildlife, but not necessarily the best farmland.\par
\par
Our trip included an area in the Carpathian mountains in the south east, which looked like a vast tract of rolling grassland, but with no livestock or human presence. Our guides, university graduates doing a holiday job to practice their English, said it had been farmed in the past, but that the villages had been invaded from the Ukraine or Germany so many times over the generations and razed to the ground with wholesale slaughter of the inhabitants, that no one would live there anymore. It is now Government owned land and, as a farmer, I was asked to put forward a possible use for it before scrub woodland took over, with the loss of the birds and butterflies that seemed to be enjoying that special habitat. I jokingly suggested setting up a herd of wild European bison, as a tourist attraction as well as providing meat. They were already building up bison numbers in the Bialowieza Forest, which we were to see later on the trip. If someone has since taken up the idea seriously, we may have more to worry about from competition with our west country grass-fed beef!\par
\par
The Bialowieza Forest, the last great primeval lowland forest in Europe, with plant and animal life as it was before man appeared, will be a honey trap for anyone visiting Poland in the future. I just hope the influx of tourists does not spoil the very thing they have come to experience. Cathedral Grove, the last area of untouched Douglas forest on Vancouver Island, Canada, had changed almost out of all recognition when we were there last autumn, compared with 15 years before. Then we wandered at will with no one else to be seen. Now there is a visitors centre, car park, and fenced paths thronging with people. Very sad, but almost inevitable.\par
\par
The third place we went to was in the north, a vast wilderness of wetlands, with a great variety of bird life and the occasional elk. Between these areas, we did visit farms where storks, corncrakes and other rare farmland birds were abundant, and I took the opportunity to ask  questions about the state of farming. The general feeling was pretty negative, with very few of the younger generation wishing to continue life as peasants, working with horses and living in some cases in what appeared to be log cabins. There were a few youngsters, we were told, who were going to stay with it, but only by expansion and mechanization, if they could find the money. We never actually met any, and it will be interesting to see from the coach windows, which may be the nearest we can get to a farm, if there is any evidence of this happening. There was no sign then of tram lining in the corn fields, which will be easy to spot this time, indicating a change away from what was virtually organic farming.\par
\par
The other reason we are going is to accompany Joe and June, our American neighbours, who haven\rquote t been before. Their surname is Modzelewski, which gives you a clue. Actually, June is English, but went to the States in her youth and married Joe, a second generation New Yorker. She was determined to live at least part of her life in England, and with her family grown up, she came over to find somewhere in Devon near relations, in the hope that Joe might eventually retire here. We were very lucky that ten years ago she bought the small farmhouse on land next to us, from Jim and Bev who had lived there when they were newly married. Joe has taken early retirement and we now have very good friends as our nearest neighbours. Joe has never been to Poland. Both his parents, although born in America, went back to Poland as babies and only met and married after returning to New York as adults. As a result, Joe\rquote s first language until he went to school was Polish. I am hoping it will all come back to him and that this time we shall have our own interpreter.   \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
                \par
\par
\par
}
 