{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f28\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f29\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f31\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f32\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f33\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f34\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f35\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Ian Pettyfer}{\operator Ian Pettyfer}
{\creatim\yr2006\mo9\dy17\hr17\min4}{\revtim\yr2006\mo9\dy17\hr17\min5}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords872}{\nofchars4072}{\nofcharsws4979}{\vern8247}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang2057\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp2057\langfenp1033 {\lang1033\langfe1033\langnp1033 
We keep on hearing that small family farmers are  threatened with extinction, that somehow  they are being forced out of existence by the supermarkets or politicians or an uncaring urban public. Eminent people extoll their virtues as if they were a rare s
p
ecies without which the countryside would fall apart or, at the very least, be the poorer for their passing. I recently heard it suggested quite seriously that small farmers should receive a higher price for their produce, particularly milk, in order to h
elp them survive. I don\rquote t know who was supposed to pay for this \lquote small farmer\rquote  premium; Government  I presume. 
\par 
\par Even the Prince of Wales has joined the chorus by stating in an article for the Farmers Weekly that he believes family farmers are hefted people who have cared for their land from one generation to another. Much as I appreciate his support for our industr
y
, that remark is unworthy of him. Does he really think that we are like sheep in having to learn our business through some sort of active association with our forbears? In this day and age, that is somewhat patronising. About the only aspect of farming we
 
were likely to learn was how to be stubborn and narrow minded enough to survive the inevitable  farming depressions which occurred roughly every other generation. When I started farming, a war every thirty or forty years was viewed as a necessary evil for
 a family\rquote s farming survival. What an appalling generalisation, which no one would want to perpetuate today.  
\par 
\par But what exactly is meant by  small family farmers? And do they really care for our rural environment and preserve our cultural heritage any bett
er than farmers engaged in the management of large farm businesses? I hardly think so. They are generally under such pressure to make ends meet that they haven\rquote t the time for those sort of niceties.
\par 
\par In the 50s, we used to have three 50 acre farms adjoinin
g us. Two were small dairy farms and the third was a fairly intensive pig farm, although the pigs were kept outdoors as far as possible. Under continued pressure to make a living, our pig-farming neighbours bulldozed seven acres of larch woodland to make 
more room for their pigs. After a succession of owners, the land was divided between ourselves and new neighbours with horses. Our half is now under a Stewardship Scheme, and the seven acres of flattened woodland is being managed as a wildflower meadow. 

\par 
\par Of the dairy farms, one was quickly swallowed up as off-land by a larger farm. 
\par 
\par The other continued successfully as a dairy farm for a number of years, before the owners, and by then great friends, decided to retire to an easier job, buying a fishing trawl
er at Brixham. Out of the frying pan, into the fire - but happily they are now retired. The farm was eventually bought by a non-dairy farmer, who decided to put it all down to corn. To do that successfully with time to work off the farm, he started to eli
m
inate the hedges to arrive at one 50 acre field instead of the nine small ones. I am glad to say, he was dissuaded before he had reduced the farm to a mini prairie. The present owner has planted 25 acres to Douglas Fir, but the farm will become residentia
l, as so many are at this time.
\par 
\par Thus three farms that once, under duress, produced a living for three families, are only now contributing to the well being of the natural countryside. 
\par 
\par Of course today, 50 acre farms would not be considered small family fa
rms. Most people would agree that two or three times that amount of land is the absolute minimum required to give full time employment, without specialist marketing or an outside job. In fact between 200 and 300 acres is probably nearer the size of a viab
le unit to produce anything like the  income that a young farmer should be aspiring to in the 21st century, if he is paying rent or a mortgage.
\par 
\par And at the end of the day, who wants to be a small farmer? I know that existing farmers with smaller acreages fe
el bitter that they are being savagely treated by the current depression which is not of their making. To somehow slant prices in their direction might help them in the short term, but is surely not an answer. These farms are really the first rung on the 
l
adder for new entrants and the proper solution is for them to become available through rent or purchase with an industry funded low interest scheme for genuine young farmers. That is how I, and many of my generation, got going on a small acreage with a la
rge mortgage from a Government underwritten Agricultural Mortgage Corporation.  (The AMC has unfortunately been sold to one of the big banks and has, in my opinion, lost its independence.) 
\par 
\par That helped the farmers, retiring when I started, get a better price for their holdings. I think it is the proper way to spend the modulated funds which are now being diverted from production subsidies to the environment. Let\rquote 
s use the money to give the next generation a kick-start instead of helping the birds.             
\par 
\par           
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par     
\par 
\par     
\par }}