{\rtf1\ansi \deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil       \fcharset0\fprq0 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss     \fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f3\fnil       \fcharset0\fprq0 Monotype Sorts;}{\f4\fnil       \fcharset0\fprq0 Wingdings;}{\f5\fswiss     \fcharset0\fprq2 Arial Black;}{\f6\fnil       \fcharset0\fprq0 MS Sans Serif;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 Normal;}{\s1 \sl240\slmult1\sb280\sa140\f5\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext1 Heading 1;}{\s2 \sl240\slmult1\sb120\sa120\b\f2\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext2 Heading 2;}{\s3 \sl240\slmult1\sb120\sa120\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext3 Heading 3;}{
\s62 \qc\sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa960\f5\fs48 \sbasedon0\snext62 Title;}{\s75 \sl240\slmult1\fi-360\li360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pnucrm\pnindent360\pnhang\pnf0\pnql\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext75 Outline Numbering;}{
\s76 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fi720\li0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext76 First Line Indent;}{\s77 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fi-360\li360{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnindent360\pnhang\pnf0\pnql\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext77 Number List;}{
\s78 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fi-360\li360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnindent360\pnhang\pnf3\pnfs24\pnql{\pntxtb \'76}}\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext78 Bullet 2;}{
\s79 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fi-360\li360{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\pnindent360\pnhang\pnf4\pnfs24\pnql{\pntxtb \'9f}}\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext79 Bullet 1;}{\s80 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext80 Body Single;}{\s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 
\sbasedon0\snext81 Default Text;}}{\info{\author SmartMaster}{\*\category Miscellaneous}}\widowctrl \fet2


















\margl1440\margr1440\sectd \pgwsxn11906\pghsxn16838\headery648\footery648\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 Thanks to Sue }{\fs24 Connel}{\fs24 l}{\fs24  of the }{\fs24 Lustleigh}{\fs24  Horticultural Society, Jenny and I had a very enjoyable farm walk at Prince Charles\'92s }{\fs24 Highgrove}{\fs24 
 farm in Gloucester last week. Jenny would have liked to see the garden, but all the available places were taken for what is obviously, from the row of coaches lined up at the visitor centre, a very popular attraction.}{\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain 
\s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 
I am no gardener; the farm was all I was interested in and for two reasons. Prince Charles is a very outspoken advocate for our beleaguered industry and also a committed believer in organic farming. Did this stem from real experience or was his farm just a rich man
\'92s hobby?}{\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 I had read articles about }{\fs24 Highgrove}{\fs24  and seen the \'91David }{\fs24 Attenborough\'92}{\fs24 
 TV documentary show}{\fs24 ing a year in the running of the estate, but these had only left me with a rather romantic impression of the place. Mud on your shoes is the only real way to find out. In the event, I was very pleasantly surprised. If t}{\fs24 
he Prince is playing at being a farmer, his farm manager most certainly is not. David Wilson, whose training and experience before coming to }{\fs24 Highgrove}{\fs24 
 was entirely conventional, seems totally committed to farming organically and has no illusions about the need to make the farm pay its way. I am not persuaded that \'91muck and mystery\'92
 as it used to be called is the future for food production, but he was the most persuasive advocate I have met so far, and I have met a few over the years. }{\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain 
\s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 
The farm, to work organically, depends on rotational cropping, with clover and beans providing the nitrogen, and large quantities of farm yard manure, composted, to act as a soil conditioner. This is exactly as I remember farming being taught when I was a student, although I don
\'92
t think any great importance was attached in those days to composting muck. Certainly the use of bag nitrogen was frowned on as the quickest way to impoverish your soil, but very few worried about what it might do to human health. Growing enough food for all was more important. Of course there is far more to farming organically than that, as the bookkeeping required to be licensed by the Soil Association testif
}{\fs24 ies}{\fs24 . }{\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 
Obviously, to recycle the clover and beans and provide the farm yard manure on the scale needed to maintain the fertility of  a large arable farm organically, sheep and cattle have to be part of the system. At }{\fs24 Highgrove,}{\fs24 
 there are two herds of cattle - a suckler herd of 90 pedigree A}{\fs24 berdeen }{\fs24 A}{\fs24 ng}{\fs24 us}{\fs24  and a dairy herd of 160, and rising, pedigree }{\fs24 Ayrshires.}{\fs24  (The sight of a }{\fs24 kilted}{\fs24 
 prince striding around is not likely to frighten th}{\fs24 ose breeds}{\fs24 
.) There is also a flock of 500 ewes which had recently finished lambing. It was interesting that the arable crops are wheat, oats and rye, but not barley. Unless I got that wrong, that is most unusual today, when barley and wheat are the two common crops of arable farming. Nor is any cereal other than oats fed to the livestock. Again when I started farming, barley was considered a toxic feed for ruminants, although today it is used extensively in cattle rations. 
}{\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 The farm cannot be an easy one to manage, the two main blocks of land being separated by the town of }{\fs24 Tetbury}{\fs24 .}{\fs24 
 There must be times when Prince Charles and the staff especially  must wish the whole area was in a ring fence - how they managed through }{\fs24 FMD}{\fs24  I hate to think. Considering that }{\fs24 Highgrove}{\fs24 
 is very much in the public eye, it was encouraging to see that spit and polish was not high on the agenda. It all looked very much like any other well run farm. True, there weren\'92
t old sheets of galvanised iron or broken gates lying about, but there were plenty of weeds growing round the parked f}{\fs24 a}{\fs24 r}{\fs24 
m machinery, and even the odd roof that showed signs of contact with a tractor loader. The farm is not over staffed and I wondered at the overtime hours th}{\fs24 
ey must work or whether the garden staff acted as back-up at busy times. The amount of tree planting in the parkland and the miles of new hedges that Prince }{\fs24 
Charles is putting in to divide the larger arable fields must be more than normal farm work would allow. }{\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 
I also wondered, as we travelled back to Devon after a very satisfying day out, how the farm at }{\fs24 Highgrove}{\fs24 
 will fare if production subsidies are phased out. It is very easy, as a farmer to calculate roughly how much subsidy your neighbours are generating in their accounts, and this was no exception. Even with the extra earnings from selling \'91organic\'92
, I doubt whether beef or milk is over profitable at present, and lamb is currently showing very little advantage over \'91inorganic\'92
. Growing market garden crops, which are not subsidised, organically is one thing, but large scale arable farming without the necessary livestock is quite another. Looking out of the coach window at the C}{\fs24 otswold cou}{\fs24 
ntryside, it was very obvious how much }{\fs24 Hig}{\fs24 h}{\fs24 rove}{\fs24  differed from its neighbours - vast acres of arable farming but very few livestock to be seen.    }{\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 \par}

\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24    }{\fs24  }{\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24  }{\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 
\par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24         }{\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24     }{\fs24   }{\fs24    }{\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain 
\s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain \s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24 \par}
\pard\plain 
\s81 \sl240\slmult1\sb0\sa0\fs24 {\fs24    }{\fs24     }}